you
[Music]
hello make yourself a cup of tea or
coffee and we are about a start
you're watching how they changed and
today we review the Falcon Crest TV
series Falcon Crest is an American
primetime television soap opera that
aired for nine seasons on CBS from 1981
to 1990 a total of 227 episodes were
produced the series revolved around the
feuding factions of the wealthy Joe
Bertie and Channing family in the
Californian wine industry Jane Wyman
starred as Angela turning a tyrannical
matriarch of the Falcon Crest winery
alongside Robert Foxworth as chase Joe
busy Angela's nephew who returns to
Falcon Crest after the death of his
father Jason the series was set in the
fictitious tuscany valley modeled after
the Napa Valley northeast of San
Francisco the show was created by Earl
Hamner who had previously created the
Waltons which had just finished its
final season in 1981
Helena wanted to create a family drama
involving the wine industry entitled the
vintage years in an air pilot episode
was produced but CBS requested that
Hamner make her show more along the
lines of Dallas which was the network's
biggest hit at that time a script was
rewritten and several cast members
changed for what became Falcon Crest the
series first aired in December 1981 when
CBS scheduled Falcon Crest at 10:00 p.m.
on Friday nights right after Dallas the
Dallas Falcon Crest one-two punch proved
lucrative for the network and Falcon
Crest was a top 20 show in the Nielsen
rating for several years both shows like
the Waltons were produced for CBS by the
same company Lorimar Productions and the
center of the action is Angela Tawhiti
turning a corrupt tyrannical mitrik who
rules the Falcon Crest vineyards with an
iron fist when her brother Jason
Gioberti dies from a fall in their
winery
his son chase Java T who lives in New
York with his wife and children arrived
to claim his inherited portion of Falcon
Crest the rivalry between Angela and
chase whom Angela sees is an interloper
says the tone for much of the series
surrounding Angela are her two daughters
julia cumson Heba Dalton and a maternal
Margaret Ladd and her lazy playboy
grandson Lance Carson Lorenzo Lamas who
aids her in her battles against chase
Lance's mother Julia is Falcon Crest
wines chief winemaker there often feels
oppressed by her domineering mother
[Music]
Julie's younger sister Emma doesn't work
in the family business and is
emotionally troubled but despite a tall
is a friendly and kind-hearted woman who
is as far removed for her mother's mush
Nations as anything meanwhile Lance
loves money and he ends for power but
Lex Angelus is discipline and
determination the ever-tightening grip
on you eventually sends him to work for
his grandfather's newspaper the San
Francisco Globe eating Angela in her
quest for more power is a cruel or
phillip erikson now Ferrer
who would later become her second
husband Chase's wife Maggie Susan
Sullivan is a freelance writer who later
works at the new globe newspaper they're
grown son Col William R Moses works at
the winery with Chase and daughter Vicky
Jaime Rose later Donna sparks is just
finishing school eventually realizing
that she would not gain control over
chases land anytime soon Angela hopes to
enlarge her Empire by forcing Lance into
an arranged marriage with melissa
agretti briefly played by Dolores come
to later by an elite iya Harris to the
much coveted agretti vineyards scheming
Melissa becomes embroiled in a love
triangle with Lance and Cole even
marrying lungs while pregnant with
causes child in the second season
a true rival for Angela arise in the
form of conniving Richard Channing
they lips I'll be the illegitimate son
of Angeles's ex-husband Douglas Channing
and Jace's mother chuckling Poirot
she inherits most of his father's shares
in the family newspaper after Douglas
dies and uses his new wealth and power
to seek retribution against both Angela
and chase who always treating him like
an outcast
Richard crosses them at every turn and
make several attempts to wrest control
of Falcon Crest after chase dies Maggie
marries Richard until she dies herself
when a series ended it ended on a happy
ending with a family wedding and Angela
toasting the land
the monologue cretin Vernice Wyman
herself despite its reputation as merely
being Dallas with crepes Falcon Crest
soon found its own niche among the
primetime dramas of the 1980s occupying
the middle ground between the two
extremes of the genre in more glamorous
than Dulles yet not quite as outrageous
and campus dynasty the distinctive
location of filming in the Napa Valley
and the dry really humorous tone of the
scripts give the series of personality
of its own the rivalry between Angela
chase and Richard stated the core the
show for several years as more romantic
entanglements span around them
Ronson cool found themselves not only
caught up in their family but hose for
control of Falcon Crest but were also
competing for Melissa's affections like
Dallas and dynasty Falcon Crest employed
memorable end-of-season cliffhangers to
boost ratings in 1982 1983 season ended
with murder-mystery who Donna's blood
surrounding the death of Melissa's
father Carlo grazie that had spent most
of the season
the killer was confronted in front of
the entire cast only to produce a
handgun shots were fired and heard from
outside as the
camera panned away from the mansion
which then faded into the final scene of
a coffin being lowered into the ground
giving the audience to wonder who had
been killed it was later revealed that
Angelus daughter julia had killed her
Gracie and was shipped off to a
sanitarium she would let her go to a
convent and find her happiness there the
third season cliffhanger a 1984 involved
a plane crash carrying most of the major
characters resulting in the death of
three of them a bomb explosion which
ended the fourth season left Richard and
Maggie in peril and an earthquake that
rippled through the valley and at the
fifth season the cliffhanger of the
sixth season put chase Melissa Richard
Mucca mad antics and Maggie sees baby in
danger of drowning in the San Francisco
Bay Area at the end of the seventh
season Melissa had finally rested
complete control of Falcon Crest away
from Angela while Richard was apparently
murdered by the third scene a powerful
group of shady business men who he had
turned against himself the series also
frequently cast former Hollywood royalty
in the guest roles Lana Turner Gina
Lollobrigida Cesar Romero Robert Stack
Cliff Robertson Celeste Holm and Kim
Novak who appeared in Falcon Crest the
suspect of the series seemed to be well
and grazed by the producers who at one
stage instituted a rotating guest star
policy Leslie Caron Lauren Hutton Eddie
Albert
if Arden frost Kelly brown Andrew Sewell
Andrews all made appearances during the
1987 1988 season as they taught Taylor
who would remain with the series until
its final season after producer Jeffrey
lash left a series at the end of 1988
season fewer special guest stars appear
to boost ratings one of them means using
Blakely in the final year with the
departures of many of the core cast
coupled with the shifting tastes of the
public in the mid-1980s
ratings began to drop as said ratings
for all of the
I'm soaps of that era but the late-1980s
years ratings were dominated by sitcoms
and more realistic legal crime dramas
such as la Lu and in the heat of the
night during its eighth season Soap
Opera Digest gave Falcon Crest the title
of most ruin show in the spring of 1989
the series finished in 52nd place in the
ratings the series attempted to
revitalize itself much in the way that
rival soap knobs landing has
successfully done but by the beginning
of the ninth and final season in 1989
Angela lance and Emma were the only
three characters from the original first
season cast remaining on the series
during the 1989 1990 season Jane Wyman
was absent for most of that season due
to her health problems the final season
then revolved around the battle between
Richard and newcomer Michael sharp for
control of Falcon Crest and that's all
for now leave a like and don't forget to
subscribe
take her friends
you